[Music]
it's crazy I've never understood that
some people think that science is as
boring as watching paint dry
even if scientists literally watched
paint dry it would probably be part of
some fascinating experiment aimed at the
betterment of all humanity or at least
the betterment of some paint there are a
lot of scientific endeavors that take an
immense amount of time but produce the
most amazing results and here are some
of the oddest among them number one
sunspot observation yeah this is the
kind of long-winded science they won't
ever be replaced because we will be
observing and studying our Sun for as
long as it's here with us and it's been
captivating curious minds for as long as
it's been here one of the most
remarkable features of the Sun is the
appearance of huge dark and extremely
magnetic spots on its surface
they can even be larger than the entire
earth while Western observers believe
the idea of the Greek philosopher
Aristotle that the Sun is perfect their
Chinese colleagues were not so sure
about that
their first note about sunspots was
quite poetic it reads the Sun was yellow
at its rising and a black vapour as
large as a coin was observed at its
center and dates to 28 BCE since that
ancient time astronomers have discovered
that sunspots have a direct impact on
the Earth's climate for example there
was a period called medieval maximum
from 1100 to 1250 when a lot of sunspots
were observed and which coincides with a
period of warmer climate called the
Medieval Warm Period later the period
from 1645 to 1715 known as Little Ice
Age
for obvious reasons corresponded with
the mound or minimum period on the Sun
in which almost no sunspots were
observed number two
alarm bell that just won't stop let's
depart from abstract and distant thanks
and talk about something we all know
well probably too well
alarms those things that startled us in
the morning tearing us away from sweet
dreams
and it seems like scientists like their
humor dry and bitter because the only
thing that has kept its charge for 179
years now is not my phone it's an
electric Bell like those on an alarm
clock
it's been ringing since 1840 uh-oh
somebody's going to be late and it's
placed right in the foyer of Clarendon
laboratory at the University of Oxford
you may think how does Sciences even
work if there's always ringing but the
Bell is closed behind two layers of
soundproof glass what keeps it ringing
is a clapper between two bells that
still moves from one to another those
bells are attached to batteries called
dry piles the exact composition of these
batteries is unknown to this day but the
fact remains the bell still rings number
three almost perpetual clock if someone
decides one day to attach the endless
Bell to these clocks there would be the
cruelest invention in the history of
cruelty but fortunately this clock
device stands in the University of Otago
in New Zealand
it hasn't been wound since it was made
in 1864 by Arthur Beverly and has almost
never stopped to this day occasionally
the mechanism of Beverly clock needs
cleaning and repair but it works
perfectly without being wound this is
achieved through the clever usage of an
airtight box that's highly sensitive to
shifts in temperature and atmospheric
pressure depending on the daily
temperature variation this airtight box
expands and shrinks when it expands it
pushes with enough force to lift the
weight that keeps the clock mechanism
running does that mean that Beverley
clock is a perpetual motion device that
will run forever not really because it
still needs external influence in the
form of temperature shifts but it
doesn't need any human involvement
except occasional maintenance number for
elusive pitch drops what the heck is
that you ask this scientific study is
the winner of the prize for the most
laughable scientific achievements and
the whole
of the world record has the longest
continuously running laboratory
experiment it took three years to even
prepare for this experiment but its
appearance seems kind of underwhelming
at first it's just a funnel that was
filled in 1927 with a highly dense pitch
known to us as tar or asphalt when the
pitch settled down in 1930 its bottom
was opened by Professor Thomas Parnell
this experiment shows that pitch is not
a solid material but a very thick fluid
the idea is that pitch like any fluid
will form drops over time and those
drops will eventually fall but no one
saw it happening the reason is not
scientific in accuracy of course the
pitch is a liquid material but it flows
30 billion times slower than water for
example it took on average eight years
for the first seven drops to fall thanks
to the conditioning system cooling down
the air the next two drops almost
doubled on that time no matter how long
it takes they always seem to fall in the
exact moment when no one is around like
science itself is laughing at this
experiment even when it was first
monitored with a video camera something
went wrong with it and the moment of the
drop separation from the funnel was
erased now is the first time capturing
the fall of a drop is almost completely
inevitable the funnel is stream via
webcam 24 hours a day seven days a week
how exciting people around the Internet
furiously argue about when the next drop
will fall down which proves that even
the most boring thing ever can be made
fascinating with science number five
five hundred years for one experiment
hoo-boy
some experiments are imagined with the
mindset that human life is just too
short to answer some of the questions
people might ask today one such question
appeared in the bright mind of Charles
Cockell from the University of Edinburgh
once he forgot about a petri dish with
lots of bacteria
in it for God for ten years more than
enough time for the bacteria to dry up I
would just pretend it's not mine and
throw it away in shame but that's
probably why I'm not a scientist Charles
acted much differently he tried to
revive the bacteria after all this time
and succeeded since then he's been
wondering how long can dried bacteria
survive in 2014 his ambitious experiment
began all he needed was two wooden boxes
with sealed glass vials that contained
bacteria inside and most importantly
instruction for future scientists
because in 25 14 Charles probably won't
be around to open the last vials and
revive the bacteria himself probably
once in every 25 years scientists must
open some of the vials pour water on the
bacteria and try to make them reproduce
oh and copy the instructions on whatever
format will be used in the future 500
years from now people may not even know
what a USB drive is number six more than
66-thousand generations in petri dishes
another example of microbiologist
impressive patience perseverance and
persistence is an experiment that's been
run by an American evolutionary
biologist Richard Lenski since 1988 it
may seem like it's not that long but
only in human years in 2016 12
populations of bacteria named ecoli
reached the point of 66 thousand
generations for human species that would
be a timespan of a bit under 2 million
years all these generations of e.coli
are needed to track little evolutionary
changes in them and to watch the
evolution itself in miniature the most
interesting part of this ongoing
observation is the failure of the
prediction that species must reach their
peak fitness for maximum abdication to
the environment according to common
knowledge in biology that would have
already happened with the bacteria used
in the experiment but they keep changing
more and more that means that evolution
never stops and mother nature always has
room for improvement for example
somewhere between 30 1030 1,500 ecole I
developed an ability to feed on two food
sources besides the one that was already
digestible for them Wow
the best part about this experiment is
that it's not going to end anytime soon
and we can learn so much from it this is
how even simple and boring beginnings
can lead to great discoveries or
inventions have you ever felt like
science wakes up your imagination and
makes your mind rush forward is
something you really want to know
tell us your story in the comments
section and don't forget to leave this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to always stay on
the bright side of life